>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
GIVEN THE GREEN LIGHT FOR THE
U.S. TO SUPPLY SYRIA'S REBELS
WITH ARMS AND AMMUNITION.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, NOW
THAT U.S. INTELLIGENCE BELIEVES
ASSAD'S GOVERNMENT HAS USED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, WE DEBATE THE
AMERICAN RESPONSE WITH TWO
FORMER FOREIGN POLICY ADVISERS:
ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI AND VALI
NASR.
>> Woodruff: THEN, RAY SUAREZ
GETS THE LATEST ON DETROIT'S
DIRE FINANCIAL SITUATION, AFTER
THE CITY'S EMERGENCY MANAGER
SAID IT WILL DEFAULT ON $2.5
BILLION OF DEBT.
>> Brown: SIX MONTHS AFTER THE
TRAGIC SHOOTINGS IN NEWTOWN,
MARGARET WARNER UPDATES EFFORTS
TO PUSH FOR GUN CONTROL
LEGISLATION.
>> Woodruff: MARK SHIELDS AND
DAVID BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S
NEWS.
>> Brown: AND WE WRAP UP OUR
WEEK OF STORIES ON FOOD
SECURITY.
TONIGHT, THE DEMAND FOR DAIRY
AND WHAT THAT MEANS FOR
CALIFORNIA FARMERS.
>> MANY PEOPLE IN THE INDUSTRY
BELIEVE WE MAKE TOO MUCH MILK.
MY VIEW IS WE DON'T MAKE ENOUGH
MILK HERE IN CALIFORNIA.
IF YOU TAKE A GLOBAL VIEW OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DAIRY MARKET,
THERE'S ACTUALLY A SHORTAGE OF
MILK AROUND THE WORLD.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S NEWSHOUR.
>> Brown: THE PROSPECT OF
SENDING MILITARY HELP TO THE
REBELS IN SYRIA SPARKED A RANGE
OF REACTIONS TODAY FROM FRIEND
AND FOE ALIKE.
THE POLICY SHIFT ALSO TRIGGERED
A NUMBER OF QUESTIONS: WHAT
KINDS OF ARMS WILL BE SENT AND
HOW SOON?
>> I CAN'T GIVE YOU A SPECIFIC
TIMELINE OR AN ITEMIZED LIST OF
WHAT THAT ASSISTANCE IS AND WHEN
IT WILL GET THERE.
>> Brown: DEPUTY NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISOR BEN RHODES
OFFERED FEW DETAILS TODAY, BUT
HE SAID THE PRESIDENT'S DECISION
MEANS DRAMATICALLY INCREASING
MILITARY AID TO THE REBELS.
INITIAL REPORTS SUGGESTED THE
ASSISTANCE COULD RANGE FROM
SMALL ARMS AND AMMUNITION TO
ANTI-TANK MISSILES.
IN TURKEY, REBEL LEADERS OF THE
FREE SYRIAN ARMY WELCOMED THE
ANNOUNCEMENT.
BUT THEY ALSO MADE CLEAR THEY
HOPE FOR MORE AND LARGER
WEAPONS.
>> WE ARE GOING TO ASK THEM
DIRECTLY AND CLEARLY THAT WE
INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY SHOULD
USE ALL THEIR POWER BECAUSE WE
NEED HELP.
>> Brown: ON THURSDAY, IN THE
U.S. SENATE, ARIZONA REPUBLICAN
JOHN McCAIN SOUNDED A SIMILAR
APPEAL.
>> THESE PEOPLE, THE FREE SYRIAN
ARMY, NEED WEAPONS, HEAVY
WEAPONS, TO COUNTER TANKS AND
AIRCRAFTS THEY NEED A NO-FLY
ZONE, AND BASHAR ASSAD'S AIR
ASSETS HAVE TO BE TAKEN OUT AND
NEUTRALIZED.
>> Brown: THE REBELS ALSO CALLED
FOR A NO-FLY ZONE OVER ALL OR
PART OF SYRIA.
BUT ANCEFR AND OTHERS SAID TODAY
THAT WOULD REQUIRE APPROVAL BY
THE U.N. SECURITY COUNCIL.
THE U.S. DECISION TO AUTHORIZE
MILITARY AID FOLLOWED A FINDING
OUTLINED YESTERDAY AT THE WHITE
HOUSE.
IN A LATE-DAY STATEMENT, DEPUTY
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR RHODES
SAID:
"THE ASSAD REGIME HAS USED
CHEMICAL WEAPONS, INCLUDING THE
NERVE AGENT SARIN, ON A SMALL
SCALE AGAINST THE OPPOSITION
MULTIPLE TIMES IN THE LAST
YEAR."
TODAY, THE SYRIAN GOVERNMENT
CHARGED THE U.S. FINDINGS WERE
FULL OF LIES AND BASED ON
FABRICATED INFORMATION.
WHAT'S MORE, SYRIAN STATE
TELEVISION CLAIMED IT HAD AN
INTERCEPTED PHONE CALL BETWEEN
REBELS SHOWING THEY ARE THE ONES
USING CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
>> (translated): EVERYONE IS
NOW USING MASKS, OUR HEROES WANT
TO ATTACK THE PIGS WITH POISON
GAS.
>> Brown: RUSSIA-- THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT'S MAIN WEAPONS
SUPPLIER-- ALSO REJECTED THE
CHEMICAL WEAPONS CLAIM, AND THE
MOVE TO ARM THE REBELS.
>> (translated): THERE IS
LITTLE DOUBT THAT THE DECISIONS
MADE REGARDING ADDITIONAL
SUPPLIES OF WEAPONS AND MILITARY
EQUIPMENT TO ILLEGAL ARMED
GROUPS WILL INCREASE THE LEVEL
OF CONFRONTATION AND VIOLENCE
AGAINST INNOCENT CIVILIANS.
>> Brown: MOSCOW FURTHER WARNED
THE DECISION COULD UNDERMINE
U.S. AND RUSSIAN PLANS FOR A
SYRIAN PEACE CONFERENCE IN
GENEVA.
AT THE UNITED NATIONS, SECRETARY
GENERAL BAN KI-MOON SAID HE,
TOO, OPPOSES PUTTING MORE
WEAPONS IN SYRIA.
>> PROVIDING ARMS TO EITHER SIDE
WOULD NOT ADDRESS THIS CURRENT
SITUATION.
THERE IS NO SUCH MILITARY
SOLUTION.
ONLY POLITICAL SOLUTION CAN
ADDRESS THIS ISSUE SUSTAINABLY,
>> Brown: THE GERMAN FOREIGN
MINISTER RAISED ANOTHER CONCERN-
- THAT RADICAL ISLAMIST FIGHTERS
IN SYRIA WILL SOMEHOW GET HOLD
OF AMERICAN WEAPONS.
>> (translated): WE NEED AN
END TO THE VIOLENCE AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE AND THE START OF A
POLITICAL PROCESS.
GERMANY WILL NOT SEND ANY
WEAPONS TO SYRIA, BUT WE RESPECT
OTHER PARTNERS OF OURS TO DO SO.
BUT WHOEVER OPTS FOR WEAPONS
DELIVERY MUST MAKE SURE THAT
THOSE WEAPONS DO NOT END UP IN
THE WRONG HANDS.
>> Brown: UP TO NOW, PRESIDENT
OBAMA HAD RAISED THE SAME
CONCERN, BUT AT THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY, ADVISOR RHODES SAID IT'S
BEEN ADDRESSED.
>> WE HAVE RELATIONSHIPS TODAY
IN SYRIA THAT WE DIDN'T HAVE SIX
MONTHS AGO THAT GIVES US GREATER
CERTAINTY NOT JUST THAT WE CAN
GET STUFF INTO THE COUNTRY, BUT
ALSO THAT WE CAN PUT IT IN THE
RIG
FALLING INTO THE HANDS OF
EXTREMISTS.
(EXPLOSION)
>> Brown: THE TURN OF EVENTS
COMES AS THE SYRIAN REGIME HAS
CAPTURED ONE KEY TOWN, AND IS
NOW STEPPING UP ATTACKS ON
REBELS IN ALEPPO.
PLUS, PUSHING TO REGAIN CONTROL
OF THE CENTRAL PROVINCES OF HOMS
AND HAMA.
THE SYRIAN CRISIS IS EXPECTED TO
TOP THE AGENDA WHEN PRESIDENT
OBAMA HOLDS A BI-LATERAL MEETING
WITH RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN AT NEXT WEEK'S G-8 SUMMIT
IN NORTHERN IRELAND.
WE INVITED A MEMBER OF THE OBAMA
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": DETROIT DEFAULTS
ON BILLIONS IN DEBT; GUN CONTROL
SIX MONTHSFTER A NEWTOWN;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS AND CHINA'S GROWING DEMAND
FOR CALIFORNIA DAIRY.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: MILLIONS OF IRANIANS
VOTED FOR A NEW PRESIDENT TODAY,
AS THEIR LEADERS REJECTED
CRITICISM OF THE PROCESS.
LONG LINES OF MEN AND WOMEN
COULD BE SEEN OUTSIDE POLLING
STATIONS IN IRAN AND AT
EMBASSIES AROUND THE WORLD.
SIX CANDIDATES WERE ALLOWED TO
RUN BUT ONLY HASAN ROWHANI WAS
CONSIDERED A MODERATE.
SUPREME LEADER AYATOLLAH ALI
KHAMENEI REJECTED U.S. CRITICISM
THE ELECTION IS STACKED IN FAVOR
OF HARD-LINERS.
HE SAID TODAY HIS RESPONSE IS,
"TO HELL WITH YOU IF YOUO NO DT
BELIEVE IN OUR ELECTION."
IN TURKEY, ACTIVISTS WEIGHED
WHETHER TO END A SIT-IN AT AN
ISTANBUL PARK THAT GAVE RISE TO
WIDESPREAD PROTESTS AGAINST THE
GOVERNMENT.
LAST NIGHT, PRIME MINISTER
RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN MET WITH A
DELEGATION OF PROTESTERS.
HE OFFERED TO LET COURTS AND
MAYBE A REFERENDUM DECIDE ON THE
PARK'S FUTURE.
TODAY, HE CALLED IT A FINAL
WARNING.
>> (translated): WE TOLD THE
GROUP TAKSIM SOLIDARITY THAT
VISITED LAST NIGHT THAT WE ARE
ASKING THEM TO SHOW
DETERMINATION AND SUPPORT NOW,
TO SPEAK TO OUR YOUNGSTERS, TO
LET THEM TAKE THIS STEP AND
DON'T MAKE US USE DIFFERENT
METHODS.
THEN WE SAID GOODBYE TO THEM.
I HOPE THIS WILL END TODAY AND
WE WILL TAKE OUR STEPS IN
DETERMINATION.
>> Holman: ERDOGAN HAS CALLED
HIS SUPPORTERS TO RALLY IN
ANKARA AND ISTANBUL THIS
WEEND, KERAISING THE PROSPECT OF
MORE TENSIONS WITH THE
PROTESTERS.
A CHINESE NEWSPAPER TODAY URGED
CHINA'S LEADERS TO TALK TO
EDWARD SNOWDEN-- THE MAN WHO
EXPOSED U.S. SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS.
SNOWDEN ALSO HAS SAID THE
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY HACKED
TARGETS IN HONG KONG AND
MAINLAND CHINA, THOUSANDS OF
TIMES.
TODAY, THE COMMUNIST PARTY-
BACKED "GLOBAL TIMES" ADDRESSED
THAT ALLEGATION IN AN EDITORIAL.
IT SAID, "THE CHINESE GOVERNMENT
SHOULD LET HIM SPEAK OUT AND USE
IT AS EVIDENCE TO NEGOTIATE WITH
THE UNITED STATES OPENLY OR IN
PRIVATE."
U.S. OFFICIALS HAVE REPEATEDLY
ACCUSED CHINA OF CYBER-ATTACKS
ON AMERICAN TARGETS.
A RECORD-BREAKING WILDFIRE NEAR
COLORADO SPRINGS, COLORADO HAS
CLAIMED NEW VICTIMS IN PROPERTY
AND LIVES.
AS THE FIRE BURNEDODAY T,
OFFICIALS SAID THEY FOUND THE
BODIESS OF TWO PEOPLE WHO'D BEEN
TRYING TO FLEE ON TUESDAY.
SO FAR, THE FIRE HAS DESTROYED
389 HOMES OVER 25 SQUARE MILES,
BUT LOCAL SHERIFF TERRY MAKETA
SAID IT SLOWED IN THE LAST 24
HOURS.
>> I KNOW CIRCUMSTANCES CAN
CHANGE, AND WE'RE GOING TO
EXPECT A LITTLE BIT OF WIND
TODAY BUT YOU NOTICE WE HAVE
SOME CLOUD COVERAGE THAT'S TO
OUR FAVOR AND THE WINDS WERE
CALM THROUGHOUT THE NIGHT FOR
THE MOST PART.
AND RIGHT NOW WE'RE NOT SITTING
HERE TALKING INTO THE WIND, SO
THAT'S A GOOD SIGN AS WELL.
>> Holman: THE FIRE NOW IS THE
MOST DESTRUCTIVE IN COLORADO
HISTORY.  THERE'S NO WORD YET ON
HOW IT STARTED.
A MILITARY JUDGE HAS BARRED THE
SUSPECT IN THE FORT HOOD, TEXAS
SHOOTINGS FROM ARGUING HE ACTED
TO PROTECT THE AFGHAN TALIBAN.
ARMY MAJOR NIDAL HASAN IS
CHARGED WITH KILLING 13 PEOPLE
AND WOUNDING NEARLY THREE DOZEN
IN NOVEMBER 2009.
THE JUDGE RULED TODAY THERE WAS
NO EVIDENCE THAT HIS FELLOW
SOLDIERS POSED AN IMMEDIATE
THREAT TO ANYONE IN AFGHANISTAN.
THE U.S. HOUSE TODAY PASSED A
DEFENSE BILL THAT INCLUDES
MANDATORY TWO-YEAR PRISON TERMS
FOR SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE
MILITARY.
IT ALSO WOULD STRIP COMMANDERS
OF THE POWER TO OVERTURN SEXUAL
ASSAULT CONVICTIONS.
THE OVERALL BILL ENVISIONS
$638 BILLION FOR DEFENSE IN THE
COMING YEAR.
BUT PRESIDENT OBAMA HAS
THREATENED A VETO BECAUSE IT
BLOCKS CLOSING THE DETENTION
FACILITY AT GUANTANAMO BAY,
CUBA.
THE LATEST DATA ON THE U.S.
ECONOMY LEFT SOMETHING TO BE
DESIRED TODAY.
FACTORY OUTPUT BARELY ROSE IN
MAY, AND CONSUMER SENTIMENT FELL
IN JUNE.
WALL STREET REACTED WITH A
FRIDAY SELL-OFF.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST NEARLY 106 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 15,70.
THE NASDAQ FELL NEARLY 22 POINTS
TO CLOSE AT 3,423.
FOR THE WEEK, BOTH THE DOW AND
THE NASDAQ LOST MORE THAN 1%.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JUDY.
>> Woodruff: TODAY THE CITY OF
DETROIT, AND ITS CREDITORS, WERE
PRESENTED WITH A SERIES OF
PAINFUL OPTIONS.
RETIRED CITY WORKERS WERE WARNED
OF SIGNIFICANT CUTS IN PENSIONS
AND HEALTH INSURANCE AND
CREDITORS WERE TOLD THE CITY
WON'T BE ABLE TO PAY THEM BACK.
THE DAY STARTED WITH AN
ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE GOVERNMENT
ALREADY DEFAULTED ON SOME DEBT.
IT GOT WORSE FROM THERE.
RAY SUAREZ HAS THE STORY.
>> MAKE THE BANKS PAY.
>> Suarez: A HANDFUL OF
PROTESTERS PICKETED OUTSIDE THE
WESTIN HOTEL THIS MORNING, WHILE
INSIDE, DETROIT'S EMERGENCY
MANAGER KEVYN ORR LAID OUT A
LAST-DITCH PLAN TO 150 CREDITORS
TO ACCEPT PNIESEN ON THE DOLLAR
IN ORDER TO HELP KEEP THE CITY
RUNNING.
ORR SPOKE AFTERWARDS.
>> IF PEOPLE ARE SINCERE AND
THEY LOOK AT THE DATA THAT'S
CONTAINED IN THE PROPOSAL AND
IT'S STARK, IT'S BEYOND DIRE.
YOU WOULD THINK A RATIONAL
PERSON WOULD HAVE TO STEP BACK
AND SAY, "THIS IS NOT NORMAL.
I DON'T WANT BANKRUPTCY; I WANT
TO MAKE AN ADJUSTMENT.
IT'S GOING TO BE HARD, IT'S
GOING TO BE DIFFICULT BUT WHAT
CHOICE DO WE HAVE."
>> Suarez: DURING THE MEETING,
ORR SAID THE CITY WOULD STOP
PAYMENTS ON ITS UNSECURED DEBT
TO BONDHOLDERS; CUT HEALTHCARE
AND PENSION BENEFITS TO CURRENT
AND RETIRED CITY WORKERS; GIVE
AN INDEPENDENT AUTHORITY CONTROL
OVER THE WATER AND SEWERAGE
DEPARTMENT.
THE CHANGES HELP TACKLE WHAT ORR
SAID WAS UP TO $20 BILLION IN
DEBT AND LIABILITIES.
HE WAS APPOINTED THREE MONTHS
AGO BY MICHIGAN GOVERNOR RICK
SNYDER TO TRY TO TURN AROUND
DETROIT'S FINANCES AND
OPERATIONS.
BUT THERE'S BEEN SKEPTICISM
AMONG SOME RESIDENTS ABOUT THE
PLANS AND ABOUT WHETHER'S
DETROIT'S FINANCES ARE AS DIRE
AS ORR HAS SAID.
ABAYOMA AZIKIWE PROTESTED THE
MEETING THIS MORNING.
>> WE FEEL THAT THE BANKERS AND
THE CREDITORS WHO ARE HERE TODAY
WITH THE EMERGENCY MANAGER ARE
NOT GOING TO NEGOTIATE IN THE
BEST INTEREST OF THE PEOPLE OF
DETROIT.
WE ARE SAYING THAT THE SAME
FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT MR.
ORR NEGOTIATING WITH TODAY ARE
RESPONSIBLE IN LARGE PART TO THE
CRISIS THAT EXISTS IN DETROIT.
>> Suarez: ONCE A BOOMING
MIDWESTERN CITY, DETROIT HAS
SUFFERED A BIG POPULATION LOSS
AND NOW RANKS AS THE POOREST
MAJOR CITY IN THE U.S:
MORE THAN A THIRD OF THE
POPULATION LIVES BELOW THE
GOVERNMENT POVERTY LINE.
WE GET MORE ON THE PLAN SPELLED
OUT TODAY AND THE REACTION TO
ALL THIS FROM MATT HELMS OF THE
"DETROIT FREE PRESS."
WELCOME, KEVYN ORR DID NOT SUGAR
COAT THE SITUATION.
EVEN SO, WAS SOMETHING THIS
EXTREME EXPECTED TODAY?
>> WELL, I THINK WE'D BEEN
WARNED TO EXPECT SOMETHING
DRASTIC, BUT THAT DOESN'T -- THE
WARNING CERTAINLY DOESN'T
PREPARE YOU FOR THE SCOPE AND
THE RISKS INVOLVED HERE AND, YOU
KNOW, ESPECIALLY THE CUTS THAT
-- YOU KNOW, THE CREDITORS,
RETIREES, PENSIONERS, CITY
WORKERS ARE GOING TO BE ASKED TO
TAKE.
>> Suarez: WHO ARE THE MAIN
HOLDERS OF DETROIT DEBT AND WHO
IS IT THAT'S BEING TOLD TO
EXPECT JUST PENNIES ON THE
DOLLAR?
>> IT'S EVERYONE.
IT'S RETIREES, PENSION PLANS,
THE CITIES UNIONS REPRESENTING
CURRENT WORKERS, IT'S BOND
HOLDERS, THE INSURANCE COMPANIES
THAT BACKED THOSE BONDS AND BOND
HOLDERS CAN RANGE FROM MAJOR
INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS TO-- AS
ONE OF THE CREDITS OR TOLD ME
TODAY-- MOM AND DAD INVESTING IN
A MUTUAL FUND.
>> Suarez: HOW DID DETROIT GET
TO BE AN ESTIMATED $17 TO $20
BILLION IN DEBT?
IT'S HAD SHRINKING REVENUES FOR
SOME TIME.
IT'S HAD VERY HEAVY LEGACY
OBLIGATIONS FOR SOME TIME.
WERE THERE ALWAYS INSTITUTIONS
THAT WERE READY TO LINE UP AND
CONTINUE TO LEND THE CITY MONEY?
>> THERE CERTAINLY WERE.
AND THEY DID UP UNTIL LAST YEAR
WHEN THE CRISIS HIT AND THE LAST
ROUND OF BORROWING HAD TO BE
BACKED BY THE STATE BECAUSE
DETROIT'S CREDIT RATING HAD
REALLY JUST GONE INTO
TERRITORY.
THE STATE HELPED FLOAT $137
MILLION IN BONDS TO HELP
STABILIZE THE CITY THROUGH WHAT
THEY HOPED WAS GOING TO BE AN
AGREEMENT TO KEEP IT OUT OF THE
APPOINTMENT OF AN EMERGENCY
MANAGER.
THAT DID NOT WORK AND HERE WE
ARE TODAY PERHAPS JUST WEEKS
AWAY FROM A CHAPTER 9 MUNICIPAL
BANKRUPTCY FILING.
>> Suarez: AS WE MENTIONED
EARLIER, KEVYNOR ALREADY
ANNOUNCED THE CITY DEFAULTED ON
OUR OBLIGATION AS OF THIS
MORNING.
HOW MUCH WAS IT AND TO WHOM?
>> WELL, IT'S TO A NUMBER OF
CREDITORS, BUT IT WAS A NEARLY
$40 MILLION PAYMENT ON A COMPLEX
STRUCTURE, A FINANCE STRUCTURE
CALLED A -- SORRY, A CERTIFICATE
OF PARTICIPATION OBLIGATION AND
WE KNOW THAT THE CITY HAS ALSO
KIND OF TRIGGERED TERMS FOR
DEFAULT IN THE PAST AS WELL BUT
HAS BEEN ABLE TO NEGOTIATE WITH
CREDITORS TO EXTEND PAYMENT
DATES.
AND, YOU KNOW, THERE'S A LONG
LINE OF VENDORS, FOR EXAMPLE,
WHO PROVIDE GOODS AND SERVICES
TO THE CITY WHO HAVE GONE MONTHS
WITHOUT PAYMENT.
>> Suarez: NOW, THE EMERGENCY
MANAGER SAID THE ODDS OF A
BANKRUPTCY WERE 50-50 AND,
INDEED, IT WOULD BE THE LARGEST
MUNICIPAL BANKRUPTCY EVER.
BUT WHY ISN'T DETROIT CONSIDERED
BANKRUPT ALREADY?
IF IT MISSED A PAYMENT TODAY AND
IS TELLING PEOPLE THAT IT OWES
MONEY THAT IT'S ONLY GOING TO
GIVE THEM, IN SOME ESTIMATES,
TEN CENTS ON THE DOLLAR WHY IS
IT ALREADY CONSIDERED BANKRUPT
TECHNICALLY?
>> I GUESS TECHNICALLY IT
ALREADY IS BANKRUPT BUT AS A
SPOKESMAN FOR THE EMERGENCY
MANAGER TOLD REPORTERS TODAY,
THERE'S A DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
BEING BANKRUPT AND BEING IN
BANKRUPTCY.
BANKRUPTCY IS THE PROCESS OF
RESOLVING THAT DEBT AND THE --
REALLY THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN
THE TWO IS WHETHER YOU GO TO
COURT TO RESOLVE IT.
>> Suarez: TODAY THE SPOKESMAN
FOR KEVYN ORR MENTIONED THEY
WOULD GIVE THE INSTITUTIONS
INVOLVED A COUPLE OF WEEKS TO
DIGEST THE NEWS THEY GOT TODAY.
IT MUST BE TERRIBLE TO HEAR BUT
ARE THERE SOME HARD-AND-FAST
DATES?
SOME DEADLINES THAT ARE LOOMING
IN DETROIT'S FUTURE THAT AREN'T
THE KIND OF THINGS THAT YOU CAN
GIVE PEOPLE A COUPLE OF WEEKS TO
THINK ABOUT?
WHAT'S THE NEXT CHAPTER IN THIS
DRAMA?
>> WELL, AT BEST WE CAN TELL, IF
THE NEGOTIATIONS DON'T GO WELL
WE COULD KNOW WITHIN A COUPLE OF
WEEKS WHETHER KEVIN ORR THINKS
THAT THERE IS NO OPTION EXCEPT
FOR BANKRUPTCY.
BEYOND THAT, THESE TALKS, THESE
NEGOTIATIONS WITH CREDITORS
COULD EXTEND INTO JULY OR AUGUST
AND, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT
OF BANKRUPTCY EXPERTS WHO SAY
THEY DOUBT THAT AN OUT-OF-COURT
SETTLEMENT CAN BE REACHED AND
THAT THE BEST KEVYN ORR CAN HOPE
FOR AT THIS POINT IS TO GET
MAYBE 80% TO 90% OF THE
CREDITORS LINED UP SO THAT WHEN
HE GOES IN AND FILES A CHAPTER 9
PETITION HE'S GOT A MAJORITY OF
THE CREDITORS LINED UP, AND THAT
CAN HELP PERSUAD
JUDGE TO GET THE RECALCITRANT
CREDITORS ON BOARD WITH THE
DEAL, EVEN CRAMMING DOWN IN THE
JARGON TERMS ON CREDITORS WHO
ARE SO FAR FIGHTING THE DEAL.
>> Suarez: HAVE ANY OF THE
CREDITORS BEEN HEARD FROM TODAY?
ANY OF THE INSTITUTIONS YOU
MENTIONED EARLIER THAT MIGHT BE
EXPECTED TO GET A LOSS LESS
MONEY BACK FROM THE CITY?
>> MANY OF THEM ARE NOT
COMMENTING.
WE HAVE HEARD A LOT OF FROM THE
CITY UNIONS TODAY.
THEY'RE WORRIED, THEY'RE SCARED.
THEIR MEMBERS FACE PAY AND
BENEFITS CUTS AND THERE IS EVEN
TALK THAT VESTED PENSIONS--
WHICH UNDER MICHIGAN LAW
TYPICALLY ARE PROTECTED FROM
BEING CUT ONCE YOU ARE A
RETIREE-- THAT THAT MAY NOT BE
THE CASE HERE IN DETROIT AND
THAT KEVYN ORR AND THE CITY OF
DETROIT MAY HAVE TO BATTLE IN
COURT IF NECESSARY TO REDUCE
PENSION BENEFITS FOR RETIREES
WHO ARE ALREADY LIVING ON FIXED
INCOMES.
>> Suarez: MATT HELMS OF THE
DETROIT FREE PERES, THANKS A LOT
FOR JOINING US.
>> GLAD TO BE HERE.
>> Brown: TODAY MARKED SIX
MONTHS SINCE THE MASSACRE IN
NEWTOWN, CONNECTICUT, AN ATTACK
THAT BROUGHT TEARS AND OUTRAGE
AND PROMPTED A NEW DEBATE OVER
GUN VIOLENCE AND RIGHTS.
MARGARET WARNER HAS A LOOK AT
HOW THE DAY WAS COMMEMORATED.
>> IF WE CAN TAKE THAT MOMENT
NOW, PLEASE?
>> Reporter: THE SISTER OF SLAIN
TEACHER VICTORIA SOTO ASKED FOR
TWENTY SIX SECONDS OF SILENCE
TODAY.
ONE FOR EACH OF THE VICTIMS
KILLED AT SANDY HOOK ELEMENRYTA
SCHOOL.
THE VICTIMS WERE GUNNED DOWN ON
DECEMBER 14, AFTER ADAM LANZA
KILLED HIS MOTHER AND THEN
STORMED SANDY HOOK.
POLICE SAID LANZA SHOT 20
SCHOOLCHILDREN AND SIX
EDUCATORS, BEFORE SHOOTING
HIMSELF.
TODAY'S MOMENT OF SILENCE WAS
FOLLOWED BY A DAY-LONG READING
OF MORE THAN 6,000 NAMES, ALL
VICTIMS OF GUN VIOLENCE AROUND
THE COUNTRY SINCE THE NEWTOWN
TRAGEDY.
THE MEMORIAL WAS ORGANIZED BY
MAYORS AGAINST GUN VIOLENCE, A
GROUP FUNDED BY NEW YORK MAYOR
MICHAEL BLOOMBERG THAT HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH SOME OF THE
VICTIMS' FAMILIES.
SOME OF THOSE FAMILIES HAVE BEEN
TRYING FOR MONTHS PERSUADE
LAAKERWMS TO BACK TIGHTER GUN
CONTROL MEASURES, INCLUDING
BACKGROUND CHECKS.
BUT THAT LEGISLATION FAILED TO
PASS THE SENATE IN APRIL.
NOW, SOME SENATORS, INCLUDING
SOME WHO VOTED NO, ARE SAID TO
BE DISCUSSING AN AMENDED BILL.
FAMILIES CAME TO CAPITOL HILL
YESTERDAY VOWING TO SUPPORT IT.
>> WE WILL CONTINUE TO FIGHT
UNTIL CONGRESS STANDS UP AND
DOES SOMETHING TO MAKE US SAFER
FROM GUN VIOLENCE.
>> Reporter: SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER HARRY REID ENDORSED THE
EFFORT, BUT HAD A WARNING.
>> THE WRITING IS ON THE WALL.
BACKGROUND CHECKS WILL PASS THE
UNITED STATES SENATE.
IT'S ONLY A QUESTION OF WHEN.
I WANT TO BE VERY, VERY CLEAR
THOUGH, IN ORDER TO BE EFFECTIVE
THE BILL THAT PASSES THE SENATE
MUST INCLUDE BACKGROUND CHECKS
AND NOT A WATERED DOWN VERSION
OF BACKGROUND CHECKS.
>> Reporter: GUN CONTROL
ADVOCATES HAVE HAD MIXED SUCCESS
AT THE STATE LEVEL.
SEVERAL STATES, INCLUDING
COLORADO, MARYLAND AND NEW YORK
HAVE PASSED TIGHTER
RESTRICTIONS.
BUT OTHER STATES LIKE ARKANSAS
AND MISSISSIPPI HAVE EASED THEM.
JUST YESTERDAY,  NEVADA GOVERNOR
BRIAN SANDOVAL, A REPUBLICAN,
VETOED A BILL MANDATING
BACKGROUND CHECKS FOR ALL
PURCHASES IN HIS STATE.
THE NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION
IS FIGHTING BACK AS WELL.
>> AS YOUR SENATOR I'LL PROTECT
YOUR 2ND AMENDMENT RIGHTS.
>> THAT WAS JOE MANCHIN'S
COMMITMENT.
>> Reporter: IT PLANS TO SPEND
$100,000 RUNNING THIS AD IN WEST
VIRGINIA ASKING VOTERS TO REMIND
DEMOCRATIC SENATOR JOE MANCHIN,
WHO CO-SPONSORED BIPARTISAN
SENATE LEGISLATION, TO SUPPORT
GUN RIGHTS.
THE WHITE HOUSE ALSO MAY BE
MAKING A NEW PUSH OF ITS OWN.
VICE PRESIDENT JOE BIDEN WILL BE
HOSTING A GUN-CONTROL EVENT ON
TUESDAY.
WE INVITED A MEMBER OF THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION TO DISCUSS THE
CHANGE IN SYRIA STRATEGY.
OUR REQUEST WAS DECLINED.
BUT, WITH US NOW TO ASSESS THE
WHITE HOUSE DECISION:
ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI, NATIONAL
SECURITY ADVISER TO PRESIDENT
CARTER.
HE'S NOW A COUNSELOR AT THE
CENTER FOR STRATEGIC AND
INTERNATIONAL STUDIES.
AND FORMER STATE DEPARTMENT
SENIOR ADVISOR VALI NASR, NOW
DEAN AT THE JOHNS HOPKINS SCHOOL
OF ADVANCED INTERNATIONAL
STUDIES.
WELCOME TO BOTH OF YOU.
DR. BRZEZINKSI, MANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT HOW MUCH, THE TIMING, ET
CETERA.
WHAT'S YOUR INITIAL REACTION TO
THIS ANNOUNCEMENT THAT THE U.S.
WILL BE PROVIDING SOME ARMS?
>> IT'S KIND OF BAFFLING BECAUSE
THERE'S NO PATTERN OF
CONSISTENCY.
U KYONOW, WE STARTED HELPING THE
REBELS-- WHATEVER THEY ARE, AND
THEY'RE CERTAINLY NOT FIGHTING
FOR DEMOCRACY GIVEN THEIR
SPONSORSHIP, QATAR AND SAUDI
ARABIA-- AS FAR BACK AS EARLY
SPRING OF LAST YEAR, 2012.
WITHOUT SAYING IT PUBLICLY.
I ASSUME THERE WAS A
PRESIDENTIAL FINDING APPROVING
IT, BUT WE WERE DOING THAT.
SINCE THEN I'M NOT AT ALL CLEAR
AS TO WHAT OUR POLICY ACTUALLY
IS.
>> Brown: SO IT WASN'T
CLARIFIED BY YESTERDAY'S
ANNOUNCEMENT?
>> I THINK THAT WAS EVEN MORE
BAFFLING BECAUSE IT REFERS TO A
VERY SMALL NUMBER OF CASUALTIES
ALLEGEDLY INFLICTED BY CHEMICAL
WARFARE.
IT DOESN'T REFER SPECIFICALLY TO
THE DATE INVOLVED, ALTHOUGH THE
PRESIDENT DREW A RED LINE, IT
CERTAINLY IS MATERIEL TO FOE
WHETHER THOSE ACTS FOLLOWED OR
PRECEDED THE PRESIDENTIAL
WARNING.
AND BESIDES WHY SHOULD THAT BE
THE ISSUE ESPECIALLY ON THE
SCALE OF CASUALTIES INFLICTED BY
THAT KIND OF ARMS IS SO LIMITED.
93,000 PEOPLE ALLEGEDLY HAVE
BEEN KILLED AND INCIDENTALLY NOT
LIKE WHAT THE OFFICIAL LINE
SOMETIMES IS, BY ASSAD AND HIS
HENCHMEN BUT BY BOTH SIDES.
THIS IS A CIVIL WAR, A BRUTAL
CIVIL WAR.
>> Brown: VALI NASR, YOU'VE
BEEN ON THE PROGRAM, YOU'VE
TALKED ABOUT WANTING TO SEE MORE
ACTION BY THE U.S. GOVERNMENT.
IS THIS THE KIND OF FIRST STEP
OR A STEP THAT YOU WANT?
>> WELL, IT IS A STEP BUT I
THINK IT'S PROBLEMATIC BECAUSE,
AS DR. BRZEZINKSI SAID, IT'S NOT
CLEAR WHAT OBJECTIVE IT'S
SUPPOSED TO SERVE.
WE HAVEN'T SAID WHAT IT IS THAT
WE WANT TO ACCOMPLISH BY
PROVIDING ARMS TO THE REBELS.
DO WE WANT TO JUST ADDRESS THE
HUMANITARIAN ISSUE IN IS OUR
OBJECTIVE TO REVERSE THE RECENT
GAINS THE ASSAD REGIME HAS MADE?
IS THIS PUNISHMENT FOR THE USE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS?
IS IT TO SHORE UP OUR SAGGING
CREDIBILITY IN THE REGION?
SO IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER THIS
IS ENOUGH OR IT'S TOO LATE
UNLESS YOU KNOW WHAT IT'S FOR.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK IT
SHOULD BE FOR?
BECAUSE THERE IS A DEBATE RIGHT
NOW AT THE WHITE HOUSE, RIGHT,
ABOUT WHAT TO DO AND HOW TO
TARGET IT.
>> WELL, I THINK OUR GOAL WAS TO
TRY TO ARRIVE AT A DIPLOMATIC
SOLUTION TO THIS CRISIS IN
GENEVA.
WE CAN'T GO TO GENEVA FOR A
DIPLOMATIC SOLUTION IF ASSAD HAS
JUST SCORED BIG GAINS ON THE
GROUND.
SO OUR GOAL OUGHT TO BE TO
REVERSE THE GAINS THAT ASSAD HAS
MADE ON THE GROUND.
SO WE HAVE TO BE -- IF WE'RE
GOING TO DO THIS, WE HAVE TO DO
IT WITH VIEW TO CHANGE THE
DYNAMICS OF THIS WAR, AT LEAST
IN THE DIRECTION THAT IT'S
GOING.
AND SECONDLY, WE --
>> Brown: DOES THAT INCLUDE
WITH WEAPONS AND EVEN MORE
WEAPONS THAT THEY'RE ASKING FOR?
>> WELL, IT WOULD REQUIRE MORE
WEAPONS THAN WE HAVE ANNOUNCED.
IT ALSO WOULD REQUIRE PROBABLY A
STRATEGY ABOUT HOW WE'RE GOING
TO -- WHO WE'RE GOING TO GIVE
THE WEAPONS TO, HOW WE'RE GOING
TO GIVE IT.
AND I THINK LARGER ISSUE IS OUR
CREDIBILITY, THE CREDIBILITY OF
AMERICAN FOREIGN PCY
AT STAKE AND THEN WE HAVE TO
ESSENTIALLY USE ANY KIND OF
INTERVENTION TO REVERSE THAT.
>> Brown: WHAT DO YOU THINK
ABOUT A STRONG -- MORE WEAPONS,
A STRONGER INVOLVEMENT AND THIS
QUESTION OF OUR CREDIBILITY AT
THIS POINT?
YOU RAISED THE RED LINE
QUESTION.
>> WELL, WEAPONS TO WHOM, FIRST
OF ALL.
AS WE KNOW, THERE ARE A GREAT
MANY FACTIONS COMPETING FOR
POWER ON THE GROUND IN SYRIA AND
MOST OF THEM ARE NOT VERY
FRIENDLY TO US.
SO WEAPONS FOR WHOM?
IT SO HAPPENS, UNFORTUNATELY,
THAT THOSE FACTIONS WHICH WE
CONSIDER TO BE ALLEGEDLY
DEMOCRATIC ARE THE WEAKEST.
SO WHAT ARE WE GOING TO
ACCOMPLISH BY INFUSING A FEW
MORE ARMS FOR GROUPS THAT ARE
THE WEAKEST?
IF WE'RE GOING TO ENGAGE IN
POLITICAL WARFARE WITH A
STRAEPBLG STRATEGIC OUTCOME AND
WE INSIST ON A VICTORY FOR THOSE
WHO ALLEGEDLY ARE WITH US AND A
VICTORY PARTICULARLY FOR US, WE
HAVE TO DO IT WHOLE HOG, NOT
JUST FROM THE AIR, NOT JUST BY
SUPPLYING SOME ARMS TO SOME NOT
PARTICULARLY STRONG GROUPS, BUT
WE HAVE TO DO IT BY, IN EFFECT,
INVADING THE COUNTRY.
IF WE INVADE THE COUNTRY, WE'LL
JUST STOP WITH FIGHTING IN
SYRIA.
MIGHT WE CONCEIVABLY COLLIDE
WITH THE IRANIAN FORCES?
DO WE REALLY WANT THAT AT THIS
STAGE OF HISTORY IN THE MIDDLE
EAST AS WE ARE GETTING READY TO
DISENGAGE FROM AFGHANISTAN?
>> Brown: WHAT'S THE RESPONSE
TO THAT?
>> THOSE ARE ALL DANGERS ARE
THAT ARE ON THE TABLE THAT WE
HAVE TO TAKE INTO CONSIDERATION.
THE SYRIA CRISIS HAS NOW BECOME
VERY COMPLEX WITH MANY ISSUES
THAT WE HAVE TO BE ABLE TO SORT
OUT AND ADDRESS.
BUT GOING FORWARD, YOU KNOW,
ESSENTIALLY YOU'RE DEALING WITH
DYNAMICS OF TWO SEPARATE WARS
AND TWO SEPARATE ISSUES HERE.
ONE IS THE WAR BETWEEN THE
REBELS AND OPPOSITION AND THE
SYRIAN GOVERNMENT IN WHICH WE
HAVE SAID THAT WE WOULD LIKE THE
REBELS TO WIN.
THE SECOND ONE IS REALLY THE WAR
BETWEEN THE DIFFERENT FACTIONS
WITHIN THE OPPOSITION.
THE JIHADIS AND THE EXTREMISTS
VIS-A-VIS THE OTHER ONES.
SO THE KEY QUESTION IS WHICH ONE
ARE WE TRYING TO INFLUENCE?
ARE WE TRYING TO INFLUENCE
GENERALLY THE REBELS AS IT
STANDS AGAINST ASSAD, WHICH HAS
ALL THE DANGERS AND PROBLEMSZINU
ARM?
HOW DO YOU ARM THEM WHAT IS THE
DANGERS OF HAVING TO CONFRONT
THE IRANIANS AND THE RUSSIANS.
AND THE OTHER ARGUMENT IS
REGARDLESS OF WHETHER ASSAD
SURVIVES AND LEAVES, THERE'S
GOING TO BE A BATTLE BETWEEN
DIFFERENT FACTIONS OF THE
SYRIANS AND THE QUESTION IS DO
WE WANT TO ARM A FACTION OF THE
SYRIANS THAT WOULD BE THE
COUNTERPOINT TO THE JIHADIS?
IF SO, IS THIS THE RIGHT TIME TO
START BUILDING THOSE RELATIONS?
>> Brown: IS THERE AN
ALTERNATIVE?
BECAUSE IF THE U.S. DOES LITTLE
OR NOTHING AND THE SYRIAN
GOVERNMENT WINS-- AS NOW THE
BATTLEFIELD PERHAPS LOOKS LIKE
IT'S BEEN TURNED-- DOESN'T THAT
AFFECT OUR INTEREST IN THE
REGION AND THE WORLD AS WELL.
>> WELL, OF COURSE IT DOESN'T
AFFECT THEM POSITIVELY.
BUT WE HAVE TO THINK OF THE
ALTERNATIVE CONSEQUENCES.
IF WE GET INVOLVED IN A
PROTRACTED WAR, WE ARE AGAIN IN
A WAR IN THE REGION.
THIS HURTS US ALSO IN
AFGHANISTAN.
SECONDLY, THAT WAR PRODUCES A
COLLISION BETWEEN AMERICA AND
IRANIANS SUPPORTING ASSAD.
IS THAT BETTER THAN AN OUTCOME
IN WHICH PERHAPS ASSAD STAYS IN
POWER?
BETTER STILL, OF COURSE, AN
INTERNATIONAL GENEVA CONFERENCE.
BUT LET'S JUST THINK OF WHO
OUGHT TO BE THERE.
SHOULD WE BE THERE WITH THE
FRENCH AND THE BRITISH?
THE TWO COUNTRIES WHICH ARE MOST
HATED IN THE REGION THIS FORMER
COLONIAL POWERS?
ARE THESE THE RIGHT COUNTRIES
WITH WHOM WE OUGHT TO BE
DEALING?
OF COURSE TURKEY OUGHT TO BE
THERE.
WHAT ABOUT CHINA?
WHAT ABOUT JAPAN?
WHAT ABOUT INDIA?
ALL OF WHICH ARE DEPENDENT ON A
STABLE FLOW OF OIL FROM THE
REGION.
THEY HAVE STAKES IN THAT REGION.
THEY MIGHT PREFER SOME ORTH OF A
COMPROMISE SOLUTION AND MIGHT BE
PREPARED TO GIVE THE POLITICAL
SUPPORT FOR IT.
THEY MIGHT ALSO BE ABLE TO
INFLUENCE THE RUSSIANS.
BUT TO SIMPLY GO IN ON THE HOPE
THAT SOMEHOW OR OTHER BY DOING
SOMETHING WHICH IS NOT VERY
PRECISELY DESCRIBED FOR GROUPS S
WHO WHICH ARE NOT VERY
POWERFUL-- IN FACT, THE ONE THAT
FAVORS US IS THE WEAKEST-- IS
NOT A STRATEGY, IT'S AN EVASION
OF STRATEGY.
AND THERE'S A KIND OF LACK OF
CLARITY WHICH HAS DEFINED OUR
POSTURE THERE FOR THE LAST TWO
YEARS.
>> Brown: MR. NASR, LAST
MINUTE.
WHAT ABOUT THE PROSPECTS OF THIS
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE WHICH
IS SUPPOSED TO BE LATER IN THE
MONTH?
WHO SHOULD BE THERE AND WHAT ARE
THE DIPLOMATIC POSSIBILITIES AT
THIS POINT?
>> WELL, I THINK THE DIPLOMATIC
POSSIBILITIES ARE LIMITED.
I THINK DR. BRZEZINKSI IS RIGHT
THAT IT CAN NOT BE JUST THE
FRENCH OR THE RUSSIANS -- THE
BRITISH WHO DREW THESE BORDERS
AND ARE NOW BEING CONTESTED.
BUT THE KEY QUESTION IS ALSO
WHAT IS OUR OBJECTIVE OUT OF THE
CONFERENCE?
WE'RE TRYING TO GO TO A
CONFERENCE SAYING THAT THE
RESULT OF THE CONFERENCE WOULD
BE REMOVAL OF ASSAD FROM POWER.
THAT'S NOT BEING SUPPORTED BY
DEVELOPMENTS ON THE GROUND.
HE'S ACTUALLY WINNING.
SO, YOU KNOW, EVEN OUR
CONCEPTION OF THE CONFERENCE IS
WRONG.
I HINKT THE BEST PURPOSE FOR THE
CONFERENCE WOULD BE TO TRY TO
ARRIVE AT A CEASE-FIRE, TRY TO
CREATE CERTAIN TRACTION FOR THE
INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT FOR A
POLITICAL SETTLEMENT AND
ULTIMATELY FIND A WAY THAT THE
WORST THAT'S HAPPENING IN SYRIA
DOES NOT IMPACT THE ENTIRE
REGION.
I THINK THE BEST WE CAN HOPE FOR
AT THIS STAGE IS TO CONTAIN
SYRIA AND THEN FIND A WAY TO
GRADUALLY WIND DOWN THIS
CONFLICT.
>> Brown: VERY MUCH TO BE
CONTINUED.
VALI NASR, ZBIGNIEW BRZEZINSKI,
THANK YOU BOTH VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: AND TO THE ANALYSIS
OF SHIELDS AND BROOKS,
SYNDICATED COLUMNIST MARK
SHIELDS AND "NEW YORK TIMES"
COLUMNIST DAVID BROOKS.
WELCOME, GENTLEMEN.
SO WE'VE JUST LISTENED TO
DR. BRZEZINKSI, TO DEAN NASR.
DAVID, WHERE DO YOU COME DOWN ON
THIS HAVING HEARD THE PRESIDENT
BASICALLY CHANGE POLICY?
>> YEAH, I'VE BEEN LEANING MORE
INTERVENTIONIST AS THE MONTHS
AND WEEKS HAVE GONE BY.
I'VE -- YOU KNOW, OBVIOUS
CAUTION WHICH DR. PWR +*EUGZ
TALKED ABOUT ARE THERE.
BUT I THINK IT'S OUTWEIGHED
FIRST BY THE HUMANITARIAN NEEDS,
SECOND IT'S OUTWEIGHED THE
POSSIBILITY THAT ASSAD AND A
ROGUE REGIME WILL BE THERE
FOREVER AND WILL WIN, THIRD IT'S
OUTWEIGHED BY THE COLLAPSE OF
THE REGION AROUND THERE IF THAT.
AND FINALLY I THINK THE BIG
STORY IN THE MIDDLE EAST IS
IRANIAN RADICALISM AND I THINK
WE HAVE A LOT TO FEAR FROM AN
IRANIAN CLIENT STATE, A
VICTORIOUS HEZBOLLAH.
WE HAVE A LOT TO FEAR FROM THAT.
SO I THINK IT'S A CONTINUUM OF
NO ACTION, TOTAL BOOTS ON THE
GROUND-- WHICH OBVIOUSLY IS NOT
GOING TO HAPPEN.
I THINK OBAMA ADMINISTRATION HAS
TILTED A LITTLE TOWARD A LITTLE
MORE INTERVENTIONIST.
TOO LITTLE TO DO DO ANY GOOD,
ACTUALLY.
BUT I THINK PROBABLY A LITTLE
MORE TILT TO PREVENT THE THINGS
I DESCRIBED.
>> Woodruff: HOW DO YOU SEE
WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION IS
DOING?
ARE THEY MOVING INTO THE RIGHT
DIRECTION?
>> WELL, JUDY, AFTER LISTENING
TO THAT DISCUSSION-- WHICH WAS A
GOOD DISCUSSION-- WITH DEAN NASR
AND DR. BRZEZINKSI, I THINK
YOU'VE WHAT THE PROBLEMS ARE FOR
THE ADMINISTRATION.
THERE IS NOT A COMPELLING CASE
THAT HAS BEEN MADE THAT PEOPLE
SAY OKAY.
I MEAN, THERE'S A LOT OF
INDIVIDUAL DISCRETE REASONS.
AMERICANS DON'T LIKE TO SEE
CHILDREN SUFFER.
AND 93,000 PEOPLE-- ACCORDING TO
THE U.N.-- HAVE DIED ALREADY AND
THOUSANDS MORE CONTINUE TO DIE.
ONE AND A HALF MILLION HAVE FLED
INTO JORDAN.
JORDAN IS AN ALLY AND ITS
STABILITY IS THREATENED AND THE
REASONS THAT DAVID CITED, YOU
KNOW, THE PROSPECT OF ASSAD
BEING IN THE SADDLE WITH
HEZBOLLAH AT HIS SIDE AND RUSSIA
PLAYING THIS KIND OF A ROLE
THERE, YOU KNOW, BUT AT THE SAME
TIME I DON'T KNOW, JUDY, IT HAS
A FEEL OF FAST AND FURIOUS.
REMEMBER FAST AND FURIOUS, THE
GUN POLICY IN THE BUREAU OF --
DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE AND BUREAU
OF ARMS TOBACCO DID?
ALCOHOL, TOBACCO, FIREARMS, JUST
GET OUT GUNS AND MAYBE THEY'LL
GET TO A MEXICAN CARTEL AND
WE'LL FIND OUT AND TRACE THE
GUNS THAT WAY.
WE'RE GOING IN AND PROVIDING
ARMS.
WE DON'T HAVE A RELIABLE ALLY,
AN IDENTIFIABLE ALLY.
WE DON'T HAVE THAT MOST E LUCE
IIVE SUBTYPE IN THE ENTIRE WORLD
AND THAT IS A REBEL WHO BELIEVES
DEVOUTLY IN RELIGIOUS FREEDOM
AND PLURALISM AND BELIEVES IN
DEMOCRATIC ELECTIONS.
I MEAN, SO --
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE SYINGA
IT'S COMPLICATED.
>> BEYOND COMPLICATED AND I
DON'T THINK THE PRESIDENT HAS
MADE THE CASE FOR IT.
>> THAT'S SORT OF STACKING THE
DECK, EXPECTING A REBEL FORCE OF
THE A.C.L.U.
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO GET THAT.
>> Pelley: .
>> WELL, YOU'VE GOT AL QAEDA.
>> THERE'S NO QUESTION.
WE PROBABLY SHOULD HAVE BEEN
INVOLVED IN FORMING THE REBELS A
LITTLE EARLIER AND MORE
AGGRESSIVELY, THOUGH SOME OF
THAT HAS BEEN DONE.
SO I DO THINK THERE IS A GROUP
THERE.
BUT THE DOWNSIDES -- AND, AGAIN,
THE DOWNSIDES OF HAVING AN
IRANIAN CLIENT STATE, OF HAVING
A MASS MURDERING REGIME ARE
SIGNIFICANT.
NOW, WE CAN HAVE THIS ACADEMIC
DEBATE ABOUT WHAT OUTCOME WE
LIKE, THE REALITY, OF COURSE, IS
WE HAVE VERY LITTLE INFLUENCE.
WE CERTAINLY HAVE NO INFLUENCE
GIVEN WHAT THE ADMINISTRATION IS
DOING WHICH IS A FEW ANTITANK
AND SOME BULLETS AND RIFLES.
THIS STRIKES ME AS JUST A SORT
OF GESTURE.
A POLITICAL GESTURE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT
DR. PWR +*EUGZ'S POINT?
HE SAID THERE'S A LACK OF
CLARITY'S POINT AND HE'S -- YOU
WERE SAYING THAT THIS IS A STEP
IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION BUT HIS
POINT IS IF YOU KEEP GOING IN
THAT DIRECTION, ARE YOU GOING TO
END UP IN A WAR WITH IRAN?
>> WELL, I MEAN, A FOREIGN
POLICY IS LIKE ART.
YOU HAVE TO DRAW LINES.
SO I'M A LITTLE DUBE ROUSE ABOUT
SLIPPERY SLOPES.
THIS WHOLE DEBATE IS A SERIES OF
PARALLELS.
SOME PEOPLE LIKE BILL CLINTON
REWD A PARALLEL TO RWANDA, WE
CAN'T ALLOW THIS TO HAPPEN
AGAIN.
OTHER PEOPLE ARE DRAWING THE
IRAQ OR VIETNAM PARALLEL.
I THINK THE IRAQ AND VIETNAM
PARALLEL, WE ARE SO FAR AWAY
FROM GETTING DEEPLY INVOLVED IN
SYRIA THAT WE'RE NOT EVEN CLOSE
TO THAT KIND OF LINE AND WE
WON'T GO THERE.
THERE'S NO SUPPORT AT ALL IN THE
COUNTRY FOR THAT KIND OF THING.
SO I DON'T BUY THAT SLIPPERY
SLOPE.
>> IN THE FINAL ANALYSIS, IF
WE'RE GOING INTO THIS WAR-- AND
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT GOING INTO
THIS WAR-- AN ARMY DOESN'T FIGHT
A WAR, A COUNTRY FIGHTS A WAR.
AND WE'VE GONE THROUGH 12 YEARS
OF WARS WHERE, JUDY, THE
PRESIDENT -- NEITHER PRESIDENT--
NEITHER PRESIDENT BUSH NOR
PRESIDENT OBAMA-- HAS EVER
ACKNOWLEDGED THE FACT THAT THE
COUNTRY IS AT WAR.
I MEAN, THERE'S BEEN -- THERE
HAS BEEN NO SENSE OF COLLECTIVE
MISSION.
ALL THE SACRIFICING, ALL THE
FIGHTING, ALL THE DIEING IS 1%.
>> Woodruff: IT'S A VOLUNTEER
FORCE.
>> IT'S A VOLUNTEER FORCE.
>> Woodruff: WHO ARE SERVING
MULTIPLE TERMS.
>> MULTIPLE TERMS AT THE COST OF
ENORMOUS PERSONAL INJURY AND
DAMAGE AND AS WELL AS TO THEIR
FAMILIES.
SO, YOU KNOW, I JUST DON'T LIKE
TO TALK SORT OF CAVALIERLY ABOUT
DOING THIS.
>> THERE'S NOT A HUMAN BEING ON
EARTH WHO'S TALKING ABOUT THAT.
THE'S NREO SINGLE AMERICAN WHO
SAYS WE SHOULD BE SENDING
SOLDIERS OVER THERE OR TROOPS
OVER THERE.
WE'RE SENDING -- THE QUESTION IS
WE'RE SENDING MAYBE ANTITANK
GUNS.
WE'RE SENDING SOME RIFLERY.
THE QUESTION IS WHETHER WE'RE
SENDING ANTIAIRCRAFT, THE
QUESTION IS WHETHER THEY'RE
GOING TO DO A NO-FLY ZONE ON THE
OUTSIDE.
>> WHAT IS THE MISSION?
>> WELL, THE MISSION --
>> AND HOW WE WILL KNOW WE'VE
SUCCEEDED.
WHEN WE STOP THE MASSACRE?
>> WELL, THAT WOULD BE A START
FOR ME.
>> Woodruff: WELL, WE MAY NOT
RESOLVE IN THE THE NEXT FEW
MINUTES SO LET'S TALK ABOUT
ANOTHER STORY WE'VE BEEN
WATCHING FOR LAST FEW WEEKS AND
THAT, OF COURSE, IS THE
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE SINCE I
TALKED TO THE TWO OF YOU LAST
FRIDAY.
IT'S BEEN REVEALED THAT A
29-YEAR-OLD FORMER GOVERNMENT
CONTRACTOR NAMED EDWARD SNOWDEN
WHO WE THINK IS STILL IN HONG
KONG, DAVID, IS THE ONE WHO
SPILLED THE BEANS.
IS EDWARD SNOWDEN A HERO?
A WHISTLE-BLOWER AS SOME SAY?
OR IS HE A TRAITOR WHO VIOLATED
HIS STPHO +*ET.
>> HE'S A BETRAYER.
HE BETRAYED HIS OATH WHICH WAS
GIVEN TO HIM AND WHICH HE TOOK
IMPLICITL ANYD EXPLICITLY.
HE BETRAYED HIS COMPANY, THE
PEOPLE WHO GAVE HIM A JOB, THE
PEOPLE WHO TRUSTED HIM.
HE BETRAYED HIS FRIENDS WHO ARE
ALL NOW GOING TO BE SUSPECT AND
THEY WON'T BE HANDING
RESPONSIBILITY TO A LOT OF
29-YEAR-OLDS IN THE FUTURE.
HE BETRAYED THE DEMOCRATIC
PROCESS.
IT'S NOT UP TO A LONE
29-YEAR-OLD TO DESCRIBE WHAT'S
PRIVATE AND PUBLIC.
WE HAVE PROCEDURES FOR THAT SET
DOWN IN THE CONSTITUTION AND
ESTABLISHED BY TRADITION.
AND HE SORT OF BETRAYED THAT.
HE BETRAYED THE CAUSE OF LIBERTY
BECAUSE IF YOU DON'T HAVE MASS
DATA SWEEPS THEN THESE AGENCIES
ARE GOING TO WANT TO GO BACK TO
THE OLD-FASHIONED EAVESDROPPING
WHICH IS A LOT MORE INTRUSIVE.
SO I DON'T HAVE A LOT OF
SYMPATHY FOR HIM.
>> I DON'T THINK HE'S A TRAITOR
TO THE BEST OF MY KNOWLEDGE.
HE IS -- HE DID NOT SELL
SECRETS.
HE DID NOT PROVIDE SECRETS TO AN
ENEMY OR AN UNFRIENDLY ENTITY.
HE DID NOT PUT AT RISK AMERICANS
TO THE BEST OF OUR KNOWLEDGE.
HE DID NOT REVEAL PROJECTS OF
PLANS OR PROGRAMS THAT WERE
GOING.
IS HE A HERO?
I WOULD NOT CERTAINLY CATEGORIZE
HIM AS A HERO.
THE PRESIDENT SAYS "I WELCOME
THIS DEBATE."
THAT'S HEALTHY FOR DEMOCRACY.
THERE WOULDN'T BE A DEBATE,
JUDY, IF WE DIDN'T HAVE THIS
DISCLOSURE.
I MEAN, THAT'S A LITTLE BIT
DISINGENUOUS TO SAY WE WELCOME
THIS DEBATE.
WHAT WE'VE HAD IS WE'VE HAD NO
DEBATE.
WHAT WE'VE HAD SINCE 9/11 ON ALL
THE SECURITY MEASURES THAT WE'VE
TAKEN, THE DEBATE HAS BEEN
OVERSEAS.
IT'S BEEN RENDITION, IT'S BEEN
GUANTANAMO, IT'S BEEN ABU
GHRAIB.
NOW FOR THE FIRST TIME IT'S A
QUESTION OF WHAT IS THE TRADE
OFF.
>> WHAT ARE AMERICANS WILLING TO
DO TO GIVE UP THEIR OWN PRIVACY
WITHOUT COURT ORDERS TO LET THE
GOVERNMENT AND THE APPETITE FOR
SECRECY FOR EVERY ADMINISTRATION
IS ABSOLUTELY LIMITLESS.
>> I THINK WE'VE HAD A BIT OF
THAT DEBATE: WARRANTLESS
WIRETAPS.
THERE'S BEEN SOME OF THAT STUFF.
BUT I AGREE WITH MARK THAT THE
OPENNESS SHOULD HAVE BEEN THERE.
>> Woodruff: OPENNESS TO WHAT
DEGREE?
>> THAT THIS POLICY EXISTED.
I DON'T THINK IT'S NEWS TO THE
TERRORISTS THAT WE DID THIS.
>> Woodruff: YOU DON'T THINK
HE REVEALED THAT MUCH?
>> WELL, WE KNOW SOME DETAILS.
HE APPARENTLY TOLD THE CHINESE
THE STUFF WE KNEW ABOUT THEM.
THAT WAS HARMFUL TO AMERICANS.
THAT'S BEING A TRAITOR.
>> Woodruff: AND THERE'S A
CHINESE NEWSPAPER TODAY SAYING
THE GOVERNMENT SHOULD USE HIM TO
NEGOTIATE WITH THE U.S.
>> SO IF HE WANTS TO STAY IN
CHINA --
>> HE WOULD BE A LOT MORE HEROIC
IF HE WEREN'T IN HONG KONG, NO
QUESTION ABOUT IT.
BUT, I MEAN, LET'S BE HONEST
ABOUT IT: HE DID SACRIFICE AND
SURRENDER HIS OWN JOB.
QUITE CONCEIVABLY HIS OWN
FREEDOM.
I MEAN, THIS IS NOT WITHOUT
COST, WHAT HE DID.
I I HAVE TO TELL YOU, WHAT I
FIND THE MOST OFFENSIVE OF ALL
THE CRITICISMS OF THE GUY-- WHOM
I DON'T KNOW AND I PROBABLY WILL
NEVER MEET-- AND THAT IS THAT HE
WAS A HIGH SCHOOL DROPOUT.
WE HAVE HAD Ph.D.s NAMED
WOLFOWITZ AND AN M.B.A. NAMED
BUSH AND A Ph.D. STUDENT NAMED
CHENEY TAKE US TO WAR AND A
TERRIBLE WAR IN THIS COUNTRY
THAT'S COST DIVISION AND LIVES
AND CAUSED SUFFERING.
AND WE'VE HAD A LOT OF HIGH
SCHOOL DROPOUTS IN THIS COUNTRY
NAMED WASHINGTON AND LINCOLN AND
MARK TWAIN AND WILL ROGERS AND
ROSA PARKS WHO'VE MADE GREAT
CONTRIBUTIONS TO THIS COUNTRY.
AND THERE'S SOMETHING TERRIBLY
SNOBBISH ABOUT WASHINGTON'S
CREDENTIALS IF HE HAD GONE TO AN
IVY LEAGUE OR HAD A Ph.D. FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO LIKE
PAUL WOLFOWITZ OR LIKE RICHARD
PEARL.
I MEAN, THAT IS --
>> HE HAD TO ATTACK CHICAGO.
NO, I DON'T ATTACK HIM FOR BEING
A HIGH SCHOOL DROPOUT.
I ATTACK HIM FOR BEING A
GRANDIOSE NARCISSIST.
>> IS THAT A FELONY?
>> NO.
IT'S A PLAGUE AROUND HERE.
(LAUGHTER)
>> Woodruff: WE'RE NOT GOING
TO GET PEAL!
>> WHEN YOU WORK FOR AN
INSTITUTION-- ANY INSTITUTION, A
COMPANY, A FACULTY-- YOU DON'T
GET TO VIOLATE THE RULES OF THAT
INSTITUTION AND DECIDE FOR YOUR
OWN SELF WHAT YOU'RE GOING TO DO
IN A UNILATERAL WAY THAT NO ONE
ELSE CAN REVERSE.
AND THAT'S WHAT HE DID.
SO HE BETRAYED THE TRUST OF THE
INSTITUTION.
HE BETRAYED WHAT CREATES A
GOVERNMENT WHICH IS BEING A
CIVIL SERVANT, A SERVANT TO A
LARGER CAUSE AND NOT GOING OFF
ON A UNILATERAL THING BECAUSE IT
MAKES YOU FEEL GRANDIOSE.
>> Woodruff: SO HE SHOULD BE
PROSECUTED?
>> WELL, OBVIOUSLY THERE'S A
CALCULATION INVOLVED.
HE WAS WILLING TO SACRIFICE WHAT
WAS ACCORDING TO ALL REPORTS A
SIX-FIGURE INCOME, A PRESTIGIOUS
POSITION.
I MEAN, AND HE WAS WILLING TO
SACRIFICE THAT OR TRADE IT FOR
MAKING PUBLIC -- I MEAN, YOU CAN
CALL IT NARCISSISM BUT -- CALL
IT A MARTYR COMPLEX, BUT HE DID
DO THIS INSTEAD OF, YOU KNOW,
LEAKING IT OUT OR WHATEVER.
ALL ADMINISTRATIONS HATE LEAKS
UNLESS THEY LOOK GOOD BY THEM.
UNLESS THE LEAKS ARE MADE BY
THEM THEMSELVES.
I MEAN THIS IS -- BUT I JUST
DON'T SEE -- JOHN BOEHNER CALLS
HIM A TRAITOR AND DIANNE
FEINSTEIN CALLS HIM A TRAITOR.
>> CAN I JUST MAKE ONE POLITICAL
POINT WHICH STRUCK ME THIS WEEK
POWERFULLY.
WHICH IS THE POLLING I THOUGHT--
AND I THINK I SAID IN THE
PROGRAM THAT THERE WOULD BE
REVULSION IN THE PROGRAM.
NOT IN THE POLLS.
BY 2-160% OF PEOPLE SAY IT'S A
GOOD THING, WE'D LIKE TO SEE OUR
PRIVACY INVADED TO MAKE IT
SAFER.
>> I WOULD SAY THIS IF YOU LOOK
AT THE POLLS AND PARTICULARLY
PEW WHAT YOU SEE IS A TOTAL
REVERSAL.
OUR POLITICS ARE POLARIZED.
DEMOCRATS WHO OPPOSED THIS UNDER
GEORGE W. BUSH NOW ENDORSE IT
UNDER BARACK OBAMA.
REPUBLICANS WHO EMBRACED IT
UNDER GEORGE W. BUSH NOW RESENT
IT AND OPPOSE IT UNDER BARACK
OBAMA.
SO I MEAN, THE POLARIZATION
JUST SEEPS INTO NATIONAL
SECURITY.
>> Woodruff: ON THAT NOTE
WE'RE GOING TO SAY GOOD NIGHT
BUT BEFORE WE DO I WANT TO
REMIND EVERYBODY WATCHING THAT
MARK AND DAVID ALWAYS GO TO OUR
NEWSROOM ON FRIDAYS AND RECORD
WHAT THEY CALL A DOUBLE HEADER.
THEY'VE DONE IT TODAY, YOU'LL
SEE IT TONIGHT ON TELEVISION.
ONE WEEK FROM TONIGHT IT WILL BE
A SPECIAL DOUBLE HEADER BECAUSE
THEY'RE GOING TO TAKE YOUR
QUESTIONS LIVE AND WE'RE TRYING
TO DRUM UP AS MUCH OF AN
AUDIENCE AS WE CAN, THAT'S WHY
WE ARE TALKING ABOUT IT TONIGHT.
>> GOING TO HIT THE DOUBLE
DIGITS.
>> Woodruff: YOU'RE BOTH
GETTING NERVOUS.
>> DO YOU THINK WE'LL GET TO A
DOZEN PEOPLE?
IS IT 5:00 EASTERN?
IS THAT WHEN IT IS?
>> Woodruff: MARK AND DAVID,
THANK YOU.
>> Brown: FINALLY TONIGHT, WE
CONCLUDE OUR WEEK-LONG LOOK AT
FOOD SECURITY AND HOW CLIMATE
CHANGE IS AFFECTING WHAT WE
PRODUCE AND HOW WE EAT.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT SUSANNE
RUST REPORTS ON HOW CHINA'S
GROWING DEMAND FOR DAIRY
PRODUCTS IS AFFECTING CALIFORNIA
FARMERS, THE ECONOMY, AND GLOBAL
TRADE.
IT'S PART OF OUR SERIES: "FOOD
FOR 9 BILLION" IN PARTNERSHIP
WITH PUBLIC RADIO
INTERNATIONAL'S "THE WORLD,"
HOMELANDS PRODUCTIONS, AMERICAN
PUBLIC MEDIA'S "MARKETPLACE" AND
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING.
>> Reporter: AT THE CULINARY
INSTITUTE OF AMERICA IN
CALIFORNIA'S NAPA VALLEY, A
GROUP OF PIZZA EXECUTIVES IS
TAKING A COOKING CLASS.
THEY'VE COME ALL THE WAY FROM
ASIA TO TRY COOKING WITH
CALIFORNIA CHEESE.
DAVIS WEI WORKS AS A CHEESE
BUYER FOR THE LARGEST PIZZA
CHAIN IN CHINA.
>> (translated): I DEFINITELY
LIKE DAIRY.
I'M VERY PASSIONATE ABOUT IT.
JUST LOOK AT MY FIGURE AND YOU
CAN TELL THAT I REALLY LOVE THIS
TYPE OF FOOD.
>> Reporter: WEI IS HERE ON A
TOUR OF THE STATES DAIRY
INDUSTRY, ORGANIZED BY THE
CALIFORNIA MILK ADVISORY BOARD
TO DRUM UP BUSINESS.
ROSS CHRISTIESON HEADS UP THE
ORGANIZATIONS INTERNATIONAL
EFFORTS, AND HE'S BULLISH ON
MILK'S FUTURE.
>> IF YOU TAKE A GLOBAL VIEW OF
THE DAIRY MARKET, THERE'S
ACTUALLY A SHORTAGE OF MILK
AROUND THE WORLD.
WE KNOW A LOT OF THESE MARKETS
IN CHINA WILL GROW 10 OR 20 FOLD
OVER THE NEXT FEW DECADES.
BY BEING THERE NOW, WE CAN BE AT
THE START OF THAT GROWTH.
>> Reporter: MILK PRODUCTION IS
A NEARLY $8 BILLION BUSINESS IN
CALIFORNIA, AND THE STATE IS THE
COUNTRY'S LARGEST PRODUCER.
BUT THE BUSINESS IS CHANGING AND
THAT'S RAISED A HOST OF ECONOMIC
AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES.
TO SOME, CHINA LOOKS LIKE A
GREAT NEW MARKET FOR MILK; TO
OTHERS IT'S A SYMBOL OF WHAT'S
WRONG WITH THE OLD WAY OF DOING
BUSINESS.
FOR ONE THING, CALIFORNIA
DAIRIES HAVE BEEN GOING
BANKRUPT.
RAY SOUZA HAS BEEN PRODUCING
MILK IN TURLOCK, CA FOR OVER 30
YEARS, AND MANAGES HERD OF ABOUT
900 HOLSTEIN COWS.
BUT HE'S WORRIED, NEARLY 300
DAIRIES IN CALIFORNIA HAVE GONE
OUT OF BUSINESS IN THE LAST FIVE
YEARS, INCLUDING THREE OF HIS
NEIGHBORS.
>> THE FARM TO THE SOUTH OF ME,
WAS SEIZED BY THE BANK AND I
HAPPENED TO WITNESS THAT.
THIS WAS A FUNCTIONING BUSINESS.
THE DAIRY FAMILY HAD BEEN HERE
FOR YEARS AND YEARS AND YEARS.
FATHER, MOTHER, CHILDREN WERE
HERE IN THE DAILY OPERATION OF
THE DAIRY.
BUT IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS
WHERE FEED COSTS GOT HIGH, AND
THROUGH NO FAULT OF THEIR OWN,
THEY WERE NOT ABLE TO SUSTAIN
THE BUSINESS.
>> Reporter: THE PROBLEM IS THE
COST OF GRAINS LIKE CORN AND SOY
WHICH ARE USED IN DAIRY FEED,
HAS REACHED RECORD HIGHS.
>> MY CORN COSTS, WHICH IS A
PRIMARY SOURCE OF ENERGY FOR
DAIRY COWS, IS DARN NEAR TRIPLED
IN THE LAST FIVE YEARS.
>> Reporter: WHY?
SUPPLIES ARE TIGHT DUE TO AN
INCREASED DEMAND FOR EXPORTED
GRAIN, THE USE OF CORN TO MAKE
BIOFUEL, AND A DROUGHT IN THE
MIDWEST.
FEED PRICES HAVE AFFECTED
DAIRIES ACROSS THE COUNTRY, BUT
CALIFORNIA WAS PARTICULARLY HARD
HIT.
BILL SCHIEK IS AN ECONOMIST AT
THE DAIRY INSTITUTE OF
CALIFORNIA.
>> IN CALIFORNIA, THE
TRADITIONAL MODEL OF PRODUCTION
HAS BEEN ONE WHERE YOU BRING IN,
YOU PURCHASE FEED FROM THE REST
OF THE COUNTRY AND TRANSPORT
THAT TO CALIFORNIA AND FEED THAT
TO DAIRY COWS, AND IT'S A VERY
SPECIALIZED OPERATION.
>> Reporter: BY IMPORTING CHEAP
FEED GRAINS FROM THE MIDWEST
INSTEAD OF GROWING THEM ON THE
FARM AS DAIRIES IN OTHER STATES
DO, CALIFORN PROIADUCERS ARE
ABLE TO RAISE MORE COWS AND
PRODUCE MORE MILK ON SMALLER
PARCELS OF LAND.
IT'S A MODEL THAT WORKED WHEN
GRAIN WAS CHEAP.
>> I DON'T KNOW THAT WERE GOING
TO SEE THOSE KIND OF PRICES
RETURN AGAIN.
THERE'S SIMPLY TOO MUCH DEMAND
FOR FEED IN THE WORLD TODAY.
>> Reporter: WHILE FEED COSTS
HAVE GONE UP, THE PRICE OF MILK,
WHICH IS CONTROLLED BY THE
STATE, HAS LAGGED.
HISTORICALLY, CALIFORNIA DAIRY
PRODUCERS HAVE COPED WITH LOW
PRICES BY INCREASING PRODUCTION
AND SELLING MORE MILK, SO
DESPITE THE LOSS OF HUNDREDS OF
DAIRY FARMS, MILK PRODUCTION IN
THE STATE HAS NEVER BEEN HIGHER,
SAYS DAN PUTNAM, A FORAGE EXPERT
AT THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
DAVIS.
>> WE'VE INCREASED PRODUCTION
PER COW AT ABOUT 2% TO 2.2% PER
YEAR RELENTLESSLY FOR ABOUT 30
YEARS IN CALIFORNIA, AND THAT
EVEN CONTINUES TODAY.
AND SO WHAT THAT DOES IS IT
CREATES A REAL PROBLEM FOR THE
DAIRY PRODUCER IN THE SENSE THAT
A COUPLE OF YEARS GOES BY AND
THEY HAVE ANOTHER 5% MORE MILK
THEY HAVE TO FIGURE OUT HOW TO
MARKET.
>> Reporter: SO WHO'S GOING TO
BUY ALL THIS MILK?
REMEMBER MR. WEI, THE CHEESE
BUYER FOR A CHINESE PIZZA CHAIN?
HE'S PART OF A GROWING MIDDLE
CLASS IN CHINA, WHO, AS INCOMES
RISE, ARE CONSUMING HIGHER
PROTEIN DIETS, INCLUDING MORE
DAIRY.
IN FACT MILK CONSUMPTION IN
CHINA HAS TRIPLED IN THE LAST
DECADE, AND CHINESE MILK
PRODUCERS ARE DESPERATE TO RAMP
UP.
RECENTLY, LEADING CHINESE
DAIRIES CAME TO THE WORLD AG
EXPO IN TULARE, CA, TO ACQUIRE
THE LATEST TECHNOLOGY.
LEON SUN IS WITH THE SHANGHAI
DAIRY GROUP.
>> OUR MAIN PRIORITY IN THIS
WORLD AG EXPO IS TRYING TO
EXPOSE OURSELVES TO WORLD DAIRY
BUSINESS, INCLUDING FEED
SO WE HAVE TO FILL IN THE GAPS
VERY QUICKLY.
EVERYTHING THAT WE CAN ABSORB
AND IMPORT INTO THE CHINA DAIRY
AND BOOST PRODUCTION, AND
REVOLUTIONIZE EVERYTHING.
>> Reporter: THE SHANGHAI DAIRY
GROUP IS ALSO HERE TO IMPORT
ALFALFA HAY, A HIGH PROTEIN FEED
SUPPLEMENT THAT WILL BOOST MILK
PRODUCTION FOR COWS IN CHINA.
>> THEY NOW HAVE FAIRLY LARGE
DAIRIES OUTSIDE THE MAJOR CITIES
IN CHINA.
AND MANY OF THESE DAIRIES ARE
EVERY BIT AS MODERN AND ADVANCED
AS WESTERN DAIRIES.
AND THEY ARE RAPIDLY LEARNING
HOW TO INCREASE MILK PRODUCTION
PER ANIMAL, BUT A KEY MISSING
INGREDIENT IS HIGH QUALITY
FORAGE CROPS.
>> Reporter: ALFALFA IS
CALIFORNIA'S LARGEST ACREAGE
CROP AND ALSO ONE OF THE MOST
WATER-INTENSIVE USING ABOUT A
FIFTH OF THE STATES PRECIOUS
WATER.
>> Reporter: DESPITE CHINA'S
LAND MASS, IT HAS A SHORTAGE OF
WATER AND ARABLE LAND, SO A FEW
YEARS AGO CHINESE DAIRY
PRODUCERS BEGAN BUYING ALFALFA
FROM CALIFORNIA AND OTHER
WESTERN STATES.
>> EXPORTS TO CHINA ARE
DEFINITELY INCREASING.
WE'VE SEEN A PRETTY DRAMATIC
RISE SINCE THE YEAR 2005, 2006,
AND I THINK ALL EXPECTATIONS ARE
THAT IT WILL PROBABLY INCREASE
AGAIN THIS COMING YEAR.
>> Reporter: NOT EVERYONE IS
EAGER TO SEE THAT HAPPEN.
CRITICS COMPLAIN THAT CALIFORNIA
SHOULD NOT BE SHIPPING ITS
VALUABLE WATER SUPPLIES TO CHINA
IN THE FORM OF ALFALFA.
WHAT'S MORE, ENVIRONMENTAL
ADVOCATES POINT OUT THAT DAIRIES
USE CASERIOUS ENVIRONMENTAL
DAMAGE, AND QUESTION IF
CALIFORNIA SHOULD SUPPORT SUCH A
LARGE INDUSTRY, MUCH LESS SEEK
TO SUPPLY CHINA.
>> HERE'S SOME SMALLER LAGOONS.
THOSE ARE MANURE SEPARATORS
RIGHT THERE.
THOSE TILTED THINGS.TOM FRANTZ N
ALMOND FARMER IN KERN COUNTY,
WHO HEADS A GROUP CALLED THE
ASSOCIATION OF IRRITATED
RESIDENTS OR AIR.
>> IT'S A RELATIVELY RECENT
PHENOMENA IN THE LAST 20 YEARS
TO 30 YEARS THAT YOU SEE DAIRIES
WITH MORE THAN 2,000 COWS.
I MEAN THE BIGGEST DAIRY, ABOUT
50 MILES NORTH OF HERE HAS
18,000 ANIMALS.
>> Reporter: A 2012 REPORT FROM
THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA
DAVIS FOUND THAT ONE OF THE
LEADING CAUSES OF NITRATE
POLLUTION IN GROUNDWATER COMES
FROM DAIRY MANURE USED TO
FERTILIZE CROPLAND.
>> BY AERATING THERE, THEY'RE
GETTING AMMONIA TO GO UP INTO
THE AIR.
>> Reporter: IN ADDITION,
VALLEY'S AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
DISTRICT, DAIRIES ARE A MAJOR
SOURCE OF POLLUTION IN THE AREA.
FERMENTING DAIRY FEED AND GASES
FROM THE COWS THEMSELVES
CONTRIBUTE TO OZONE POLLUTION
AND GREENHOUSE GASES.
BRENT NEWELL IS AN ENVIRONMENTAL
LAWYER WITTHE H CENTER ON RACE,
POVERTY AND THE ENVIRONMENT.
>> ALREADY, CALIFORNIA
COMMUNITIES ARE OVERWHELMED BY
THE AMOUNT OF AIR POLLUTION THAT
COMES FROM THESE FACILITIES, THE
EFFECT ON GROUNDWATER IS REALLY
UNACCEPTABLE, SO CONTINUING TO
PRODUCE MILK TO PUT ON A SHIP
AND SHIP ACROSS THE PACIFIC
OCEAN TO CHINA, TO SATISFY SOME
KIND OF GROWING DEMAND IN CHINA
FOR DAIRY PRODUCTS, REALLY MAKES
NO SENSE AT ALL.
>> Reporter: IF THE CHINESE
CONTINUE TO DEVELOP THEIR OWN
INDEPENDENT DAIRY INDUSTRY
CALIFORNIA WILL LOSE MUCH OF ITS
MARKET FOR SURPLUS MILK AND
CALIFORNIA FARMERS WILL PAY MORE
FOR ALFALFA AS EXPORTS TO CHINA
DRIVE UP DEMAND.
IN THIS COMPLEX EXCHANGE OF
RESOURCES AND MONEY, CHINA MAY
WELL END UP THE GLOBAL FOOD
INDUSTRY WINNER.
>> Brown: ON THE ENVIRONMENTAL
ISSUES, THE DAIRY INDUSTRY HAS
RESPONDED SAYING CENTRAL VALLEY
FARMERS ABIDE BY SOME OF THE
NATION'S STRICTEST WATER QUALITY
REGULATIONS.
THEIR EFFORTS INCLUDE SAMPLING
AND TESTING MANURE AND SOIL AS
WELL AS MONITORING GROUNDWATER.
THEY NOTED THAT AIR EMISSIONS
ARE ALSO REGULATED AND CITED A
U.N. STUDY SHOWING CALIFORNIA
DAIRY FARMS LEAD THE WORLD IN A
NUMBER OF SUSTAINABLE FARMING
PRACTICES, INCLUDING HAVING THE
WORLD'S LOWEST EMISSIONS OF
GREENHOUSE GASES.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIALS SAID
PRESIDENT OBAMA'S POLICY SHIFT
ON SYRIA MEANS DRAMATICALLY
INCREASING MILITARY AID TO THE
REBELS.
BUT, THEY OFFERED FEW DETAILS ON
WHAT KIND OF ARMS WILL BE SENT,
OR WHEN DETROIT'S EMERGENCY
MANAGER SAID THE CITY IS
DEFAULTING ON $2.5 BILLION IN
DEBT IN A BID TO AVERT OUTRIGHT
BANKRUPTCY AND MILLIONS OF
>> Brown: ONLINE, OUR READERS
VOICED SKEPTICISM ABOUT A RECENT
STORY ON TREES AND OUR HEALTH,
SO WE ASKED THE RESEARCHER TO
ADDRESS THEIR CONCERNS.
KWAME HOLMAN HAS MORE.
>> Holman: IN A RECENT STUDY,
THE U.S. FOREST SERVICE LINKS
THE HEALTH OF TREES
TO THE HEALTH OF HUMANS.
IS IT THAT SIMPLE?
SOME OF OUR READERS SAID NO.
SO WE ASKED ONE OF THE RESEARCH
AUTHORS BACK TO FIELD YOUR
QUESTIONS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
NEXT ROUND OF DECISIONS FROM THE
SUPREME COURT.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.